Promises provide an elegant and powerful way of interacting with asynchronous operations. Similar to the well known "deferred" pattern, promise interactions are callback based.  The output of successful operations are passed to registered callback handlers; the output of failed operations (i.e., an error) are passed to registered error handlers .

The difference between deferreds and promises...
Each time a deferred invokes a callback handler, it assumes the output value of the handler invocation.  As a result, each callback handler registered with a deferred ends up receiving the value output by the handler before it.  Only the very first callback handler is guaranteed to receive the original operation's output value.  The beauty of this approach is that deferreds can be used to create pipes-and-filters style processing chains, where each callback processes the input value in some way, and outputs the result of that processing for the next handler in the chain.  The problems with the deferred approach are that implicit callback chaining makes deferreds completely dependent upon each handler, and only the first callback handler is guaranteed to receive the output of the original operation.

Promises support explicit callback chaining.  Rather than having a single object that mutates between callbacks, promises return a new promise instance each time a callback handler is registered.  This new promise instance represents the eventual output of the callback handler's invocation  Callback chaining with promises is achieved by registering each processing operation with the promise returned by the previous handler's registration.  In this way, promises guarantee all handlers registered for a given operation's output, will receive the output of that operation, and they support callback chaining when such behaviour is desired.

This library is a Python implementation of Promises. It has not been cleaned up yet, and contains some more experimental designs than I would recommend for a production ready project, such as using lazy functions to handle state changes.  I will get these things cleaned up eventually, but I'm sure the existing implementation will be halpful to someone somewhere.